hi everyone we are now um live so i just want to say welcome to um live so i just want to say welcome to the first the first stellar stellar protocol meeting of 2021 stellar stellar protocol meeting of 2021 um um so in a minute we're going to do some so in a minute we're going to do some quick introductions but first quick introductions but first i just want to take a second to give a i just want to take a second to give a quick overview um quick overview um what are we here for so the stellar what are we here for so the stellar protocol is designed to evolve protocol is designed to evolve to meet the changing needs of the to meet the changing needs of the growing ecosystem all the different growing ecosystem all the different projects that are building on stellar projects that are building on stellar and actually the proposals that we'll and actually the proposals that we'll discuss today are kind of a perfect discuss today are kind of a perfect example of how that works right they example of how that works right they make it easier to issue regulated assets make it easier to issue regulated assets on stellar on stellar so the purpose of this meeting is to so the purpose of this meeting is to discuss and plan for those changes discuss and plan for those changes um in case you're not aware protocol um in case you're not aware protocol changes which are implemented in stellar changes which are implemented in stellar core core they're submitted as core advancement they're submitted as core advancement proposals or caps for short proposals or caps for short and they have a very specific like life and they have a very specific like life cycle um cycle um they generally start with a discussion they generally start with a discussion on the stellar death mailing list on the stellar death mailing list and then they're like drafted and and then they're like drafted and further discussed on that list and kind
further discussed on that list and kind of when they baked a bit of when they baked a bit we bring them to this meeting where we we bring them to this meeting where we raise issues and address key questions raise issues and address key questions really start to hammer out the details really start to hammer out the details um the draft of a cap goes through um the draft of a cap goes through several stages before it's several stages before it's accepted and ultimately implemented into accepted and ultimately implemented into a new version of the protocol a new version of the protocol and validators have to actually vote to and validators have to actually vote to accept that new version of the protocol accept that new version of the protocol in order to upgrade the network so in order to upgrade the network so there's a lot of steps i want to also there's a lot of steps i want to also say that say that every step in that process is public so every step in that process is public so if you're if you're interested in keeping up with or even interested in keeping up with or even participating in participating in discussions about the future of the discussions about the future of the stellar protocol i definitely urge you stellar protocol i definitely urge you to check out the stellar protocol repo to check out the stellar protocol repo on github on github and also to join the stellar dev mailing and also to join the stellar dev mailing list that's where discussions about list that's where discussions about these things originate these things originate there are links in the meeting there are links in the meeting description so anyone listening you can description so anyone listening you can join right in join right in in case it wasn't clear from that in case it wasn't clear from that overview what follows is going to be a overview what follows is going to be a pretty pretty uh specific and pretty technical uh specific and pretty technical discussion um we're mostly going to discussion um we're mostly going to focus on uh cap 29 focus on uh cap 29 which would make some modifications to which would make some modifications to the allow trust operation in order to
the allow trust operation in order to better support regulated assets better support regulated assets and then we're going to talk about cap and then we're going to talk about cap 35 which is what the real 35 which is what the real probably the bulk of this meeting will probably the bulk of this meeting will be about about um cap 35 be about about um cap 35 asset clawback which provides an issuer asset clawback which provides an issuer with a means to claw back assets from a with a means to claw back assets from a holder in order to support regulatory holder in order to support regulatory requirements requirements there are links to the proposals and to there are links to the proposals and to the discussion threads of those the discussion threads of those proposals proposals in the show description and if you in the show description and if you really want to follow follow along you really want to follow follow along you should probably check those out should probably check those out it's again there's there's a lot there it's again there's there's a lot there but but it will really help you if you're sort it will really help you if you're sort of looking at the nitty-gritty details of looking at the nitty-gritty details while we have this discussion so that's while we have this discussion so that's kind of my overview but before we kind of my overview but before we actually actually start let's do some just quick start let's do some just quick introductions so when i call on you just introductions so when i call on you just say your name your title and your say your name your title and your affiliation affiliation i will start i am justin rice head of i will start i am justin rice head of ecosystem at the stellar development ecosystem at the stellar development foundation foundation tomer told me weller head of uh tomer told me weller head of uh integration integration stella development foundation dan stella development foundation dan i'm dan doney the ceo of secureancy
i'm dan doney the ceo of secureancy we're a blockchain-based financial we're a blockchain-based financial service service infrastructure company awesome lee hi i'm lee principal software engineer at at the stella development foundation the stella development foundation jonathan hi i'm jonathan jove i'm a jonathan hi i'm jonathan jove i'm a senior software engineer at the seller senior software engineer at the seller development foundation development foundation uh nicola yeah nico berry i'm uh nicola yeah nico berry i'm sq get up on the sq get up on the great eric my name is eric saunders great eric my name is eric saunders uh i'm a horizon engineering manager at uh i'm a horizon engineering manager at stuller development foundation stuller development foundation siddharth hi i'm siddharth suresh i'm a siddharth hi i'm siddharth suresh i'm a software engineer at the startup software engineer at the startup development foundation development foundation great karen uh oh we didn't hear karen but can you try it one more time i think your audios there's something up with your audios there's something up with your audio but and
your audio but and we'll figure it out but uh and finally we'll figure it out but uh and finally i believe david hi i'm david maciers i believe david hi i'm david maciers i'm chief scientist at stellar i'm chief scientist at stellar development foundation development foundation okay great um so okay great um so let's get started uh in sort of a let's get started uh in sort of a last-minute decision we flipped last-minute decision we flipped the agenda and we decided to talk about the agenda and we decided to talk about cap 29 first cap 29 first um it's a it's a smaller discussion and um it's a it's a smaller discussion and there's less to work out in a way and there's less to work out in a way and also it sort of logically makes sense also it sort of logically makes sense because because cap 29 has to do with the existing um cap 29 has to do with the existing um authorization flags on accounts so cap authorization flags on accounts so cap 29 29 has the catchy title allow trust when has the catchy title allow trust when not auth required not auth required um basically a trustline authorization um basically a trustline authorization it's an important feature of the stellar it's an important feature of the stellar protocol protocol it allows issuers to handle various it allows issuers to handle various regulatory requirements regulatory requirements currently there are two flags that you currently there are two flags that you can set on an account auth required can set on an account auth required and auth revocable however the way they and auth revocable however the way they allow trust operation works with those allow trust operation works with those two flags two flags probably needs a bit of tweaking so the
probably needs a bit of tweaking so the goal is to kind of clean it up goal is to kind of clean it up um basically the idea is that issuers um basically the idea is that issuers should be able to authorize a trust line should be able to authorize a trust line even if their account doesn't currently even if their account doesn't currently have an auth required flag set have an auth required flag set and they should also be able to revoke and they should also be able to revoke trust trust if they have the auth revocable flag set if they have the auth revocable flag set on their account on their account even if they don't have the auth even if they don't have the auth required flag set so right now you have required flag set so right now you have to have them both set to have them both set um that would basically allow them to um that would basically allow them to deny list certain accounts deny list certain accounts which again is is valuable for issuing which again is is valuable for issuing regulated assets regulated assets so this cap it introduces two changes to so this cap it introduces two changes to the allowed trust the allowed trust operation in order to achieve those operation in order to achieve those goals so that's the summary goals so that's the summary um i think you know um i think you know anyone can kick off the discussion i i anyone can kick off the discussion i i think this this think this this this cap originated with tomer so tomer this cap originated with tomer so tomer do you have any thoughts do you have any thoughts yeah just uh quickly discussing the use yeah just uh quickly discussing the use cases that cases that uh we have an issues with we have an uh we have an issues with we have an issue with right now issue with right now uh one is that uh uh one is that uh what happens when an issuer changes what happens when an issuer changes authorization authorization uh flag so let's say that i issued uh
uh flag so let's say that i issued uh the tomer asset the tomer asset with an uh auth required flag to begin with an uh auth required flag to begin with uh justin created a trust line with uh justin created a trust line that trust line is by default that trust line is by default unauthorized until i allow off to unauthorized until i allow off to uh but let's say that later on i changed uh but let's say that later on i changed my authorization flags i removed the my authorization flags i removed the authorization the auth required authorization the auth required and now i want to elevate justin's and now i want to elevate justin's trust line to be authorized i can't do trust line to be authorized i can't do that because that because the uh off required flag is not set so it creates like a bit of a weirdness i it creates like a bit of a weirdness i need to reset it in order need to reset it in order to set justin's proper authorization to set justin's proper authorization flags flags uh so this is uh one case that we want uh so this is uh one case that we want to fix the other to fix the other case is what if an issuer wants to have case is what if an issuer wants to have a blacklist asset that means that by a blacklist asset that means that by default default the authorization state is true is the authorization state is true is authorized authorized but uh if the issue wants to disallow but uh if the issue wants to disallow that they can that they can de-authorize the state right now they
de-authorize the state right now they can only can only invoke the allow trust operation with invoke the allow trust operation with authorized false authorized false if the auth required uh flag is there if the auth required uh flag is there uh so this is a pretty unoffensive cap uh so this is a pretty unoffensive cap it just fixes the semantics to make it just fixes the semantics to make sense sense um yeah that's it uh um yeah that's it uh first kind of obvious question why did first kind of obvious question why did the issuer the issuer onset their flag why not just leave it uh are you talking about the case when when an issuer modifies their when an issuer modifies their their their authorization flags i mean their their authorization flags i mean this stuff doesn't work this stuff doesn't work this stuff doesn't work if the issuer this stuff doesn't work if the issuer turned their flags off but i guess i'm turned their flags off but i guess i'm wondering why they did that wondering why they did that um maybe the you know the authorization um maybe the you know the authorization requirements changed maybe they started requirements changed maybe they started you know when they did the first you know when they did the first distribution of tokens distribution of tokens uh it needed to be uh regulated but for uh it needed to be uh regulated but for some reason down the road some reason down the road uh it doesn't have to be so um you know uh it doesn't have to be so um you know the idea is that right now
the idea is that right now um you know like we don't want uh you um you know like we don't want uh you know as long as know as long as issuers don't set the authorization issuers don't set the authorization flags to immutable flags to immutable we want them to have the freedom to move we want them to have the freedom to move between these things and this currently between these things and this currently uh gets in the way i feel like there also have been cases where someone started with an auth where someone started with an auth required asset and realized required asset and realized that it wasn't necessary and and so they that it wasn't necessary and and so they they essentially made an error when they they essentially made an error when they initially initially created set the flag on the account created set the flag on the account i mean i'm all in favor of consistency i mean i'm all in favor of consistency and this just seems to make our and this just seems to make our our transactions semantics more our transactions semantics more consistent consistent so why have weird little rules that so why have weird little rules that disallow certain things in certain disallow certain things in certain corner cases in certain situations if if corner cases in certain situations if if we don't need to we don't need to so it just seems like an obviously so it just seems like an obviously good idea good idea yeah i'm with david on that and uh yeah i'm with david on that and uh following up on following up on that it's like we're making the rules
that it's like we're making the rules simpler in a way that you know anybody simpler in a way that you know anybody who is relying on who is relying on these rules i mean there's no sensible these rules i mean there's no sensible way in which you could have way in which you could have been like oh my business is based on been like oh my business is based on these particular these particular rules being in effect uh you know my rules being in effect uh you know my application is designed to take these application is designed to take these things into account there's no things into account there's no compatibility risk to changing this compatibility risk to changing this stuff stuff i i don't see how you could have relied i i don't see how you could have relied on this is this the shortest cap discussion we've ever had we've ever had i guess my question is why is it like i guess my question is why is it like this i mean presumably we had an idea this i mean presumably we had an idea excellent question eric i don't i wasn't excellent question eric i don't i wasn't here for the origins of this but here for the origins of this but from studying the code i have some good from studying the code i have some good hypotheses about this hypotheses about this uh and i think there were some other uh and i think there were some other things in the code that we've already things in the code that we've already changed changed uh siddharth did did the work on it i uh siddharth did did the work on it i think it was cap think it was cap 28 maybe um but basically like 28 maybe um but basically like this name auth required is very this name auth required is very misleading uh misleading uh like from my perspective the name should like from my perspective the name should be something like uh
be something like uh auth like off default or something like auth like off default or something like that like that like do you default to true or default to do you default to true or default to false um and that's what the flag false um and that's what the flag actually does inside of stellar core actually does inside of stellar core but because of that this name auth but because of that this name auth required there were lots of places in required there were lots of places in the the code where there were things that we code where there were things that we were doing that looked like we were were doing that looked like we were going to check this flag on the issuer's going to check this flag on the issuer's account account but we don't actually do that and so i but we don't actually do that and so i think that this think that this this behavior kind of originates from this behavior kind of originates from this very very misleading name this very very misleading name more than anything else i don't know more than anything else i don't know people people like nikola might have a perspective on like nikola might have a perspective on why it was written like this originally why it was written like this originally if you can remember back that far a lot of things happened very quickly uh you know last year you know last year yeah no i don't remember yeah no i don't remember so it seems like no one no one has an so it seems like no one no one has an objection objection to this cap i mean is that correct does to this cap i mean is that correct does anyone have an objection i'd say if so anyone have an objection i'd say if so now is the time
now is the time uh what i object to is like uh what i object to is like psychologically i think we all feel like psychologically i think we all feel like there needs to be some minimum there needs to be some minimum discussion time for any proposal but if discussion time for any proposal but if it's just an obviously good idea let's it's just an obviously good idea let's just just like get it over with it done like get it over with it done great then i stuck to his word and this is 15 minutes or less so that's or less so that's that's impressive yeah it's it's eerie that's impressive yeah it's it's eerie okay great i mean it's it's are there okay great i mean it's it's are there are there any follow-up are there any follow-up like questions that we need to address like questions that we need to address before we move on just in terms of before we move on just in terms of thinking about the implementation of thinking about the implementation of this cap or we just we just move on to this cap or we just we just move on to cap 35. cap 35. so one last point following on what john so one last point following on what john said said do we think we should take the do we think we should take the opportunity and rename opportunity and rename these flags i discussed this with liabit and i i pitched that same thing pitched that same thing relevant this came up in the discussion relevant this came up in the discussion of cap35 as well and lee kind of of cap35 as well and lee kind of convinced me that like from an ecosystem convinced me that like from an ecosystem perspective renaming this would be perspective renaming this would be nightmarish i'll let lee chime in on nightmarish i'll let lee chime in on that if he wants to
that if he wants to but i was pretty convinced that it's not but i was pretty convinced that it's not a good idea yeah so these names um they obviously exist in the protocol exist in the protocol they also exist in horizons api they also exist in horizons api and that consistency is elegant and that consistency is elegant that you can look at the horizon api and that you can look at the horizon api and you can see a flag name you can see a flag name you can read documentation that you can read documentation that discusses the protocol discusses the protocol and that's the same um so if we were to and that's the same um so if we were to change it in one place change it in one place it would be ideal to change it in other it would be ideal to change it in other places to maintain that consistency but places to maintain that consistency but that would break horizons api that would break horizons api um because the actual name auth um because the actual name auth underscore required underscore required authors are revocable they show up in authors are revocable they show up in the api as field names i think the cost that weighs the benefit i think the cost that weighs the benefit of changing the name personally
just take the victory let's okay we're moving on moving on thank you that that's the right way to thank you that that's the right way to do it david um do it david um okay then we're going to move on to cap okay then we're going to move on to cap 35. um 35. um so as i mentioned at the top of this so as i mentioned at the top of this meeting cap 35 defines a method for meeting cap 35 defines a method for allowing an issuer to claw back an asset allowing an issuer to claw back an asset in order to support regulatory in order to support regulatory requirements requirements it could be used for instance to recover it could be used for instance to recover assets that have been fraudulently assets that have been fraudulently fraudulently obtained um to respond to fraudulently obtained um to respond to regulatory actions regulatory actions and to enable someone who can prove and to enable someone who can prove their identity to recover an asset in their identity to recover an asset in the event of key loss or theft the event of key loss or theft so this proposal which was updated very so this proposal which was updated very recently recently it currently introduces a new account it currently introduces a new account flag flag a new trustline flag a new claimable a new trustline flag a new claimable balance flag balance flag and two new operations one to claw back and two new operations one to claw back an asset and one to claw back a an asset and one to claw back a claimable balance claimable balance um dan i i think you understand the need um dan i i think you understand the need for this change more than anyone for this change more than anyone is there anything you'd like to add just is there anything you'd like to add just a little background a little background on this we are doing a series of on this we are doing a series of experiments
experiments with a number of prominent regulators with a number of prominent regulators from around the world from around the world and we've we did a a pretty significant and we've we did a a pretty significant experiment experiment demonstrating the ability to enforce um demonstrating the ability to enforce um regulatory rule sets from different regulatory rule sets from different jurisdictions in jurisdictions in using stellar's decks and uh it was very using stellar's decks and uh it was very well received by well received by by regulators in in that particular by regulators in in that particular setting setting that is the ability to enforce policy in that is the ability to enforce policy in a decentralized setting a decentralized setting using the sep 8 pattern using the sep 8 pattern and out of that discussion came a second and out of that discussion came a second discussion that the regulators are discussion that the regulators are particularly interested in particularly interested in that has to do with custody and you see that has to do with custody and you see assets in general falling into one of assets in general falling into one of two patterns two patterns one which is a bearer instrument pattern one which is a bearer instrument pattern bearer instrument patterns bearer instrument patterns have certain benefits in the marketplace have certain benefits in the marketplace in terms of being censorship free in terms of being censorship free but they also have certain downsides to but they also have certain downsides to their nature their nature and this is one that makes them much and this is one that makes them much more difficult to regulate
more difficult to regulate and from a regulator's perspective and from a regulator's perspective there's a particular record keeper there's a particular record keeper role which has certain responsibilities role which has certain responsibilities into the marketplace into the marketplace known as a transfer agent the transfer known as a transfer agent the transfer agent if they fail to execute their agent if they fail to execute their responsibilities can be sued responsibilities can be sued but they keep the official record but they keep the official record in the absence of the transfer agent in the absence of the transfer agent being able to correct the record being able to correct the record you can't have records on blockchain for you can't have records on blockchain for securities securities but it turns out it with a clawback but it turns out it with a clawback mechanism you can actually empower mechanism you can actually empower a transfer agent that is a licensed a transfer agent that is a licensed entity with this responsibility entity with this responsibility to correct the record and why would it to correct the record and why would it do that do that and the big thing that for example the and the big thing that for example the sec worries about is sec worries about is the case of the canadian exchange the case of the canadian exchange operator who operator who disappears or dies and loses custody of disappears or dies and loses custody of a number of their clients assets a number of their clients assets and there's nothing that the marketplace and there's nothing that the marketplace can do about that scenario can do about that scenario the sec sees for the sec sees for trillions of dollars worth of securities trillions of dollars worth of securities writing in these
writing in these ledgers that that would mean that they ledgers that that would mean that they have to be securities experts for have to be securities experts for everyone who performs a broker role everyone who performs a broker role in the marketplace and that to them is in the marketplace and that to them is just frightening and no one would ever just frightening and no one would ever get through would be just way too much get through would be just way too much of a responsibility of a responsibility not trying to discount the sec's not trying to discount the sec's position on these things but they see position on these things but they see the ability to correct the record the ability to correct the record as an essential component the central as an essential component the central piece of correcting the record piece of correcting the record is executing a clawback if someone has is executing a clawback if someone has made a mistaken or made a mistaken or illicit transaction if you can pull back illicit transaction if you can pull back that asset that asset and put it to its rightful owner you and put it to its rightful owner you have the means to have the means to uh to correct the record so this is the uh to correct the record so this is the nature of this nature of this element came down to regulated assets as element came down to regulated assets as we've interacted with regulators we've interacted with regulators globally virtually all of them require globally virtually all of them require some form of this some form of this which we'll easily fall into we believe which we'll easily fall into we believe the structure of what's been produced the structure of what's been produced here here with the with cap 35. hopefully that with the with cap 35. hopefully that provides some background provides some background and i'd be happy to answer questions if and i'd be happy to answer questions if there's any um there's any um anything else on this we happen to be
anything else on this we happen to be going in and showing the regulators this going in and showing the regulators this in the near future and that's why in the near future and that's why there's some pressure to there's some pressure to to show that stellar can be used in a to show that stellar can be used in a way that satisfies way that satisfies the world's regulators very prominent the world's regulators very prominent regulators regulators that stellar suitable for securities that stellar suitable for securities i just want to clarify when you say we i just want to clarify when you say we you mean so currency correct you mean so currency correct correct great cool um i mean i mean correct great cool um i mean i mean there's already been a lot of back and there's already been a lot of back and forth on the mailing list about this forth on the mailing list about this proposal proposal um and it seems like there is there are um and it seems like there is there are specific issues to discuss specific issues to discuss and i i think the first one that's that and i i think the first one that's that came up is about came up is about the immutability of clawback capability the immutability of clawback capability and how it relates to trust lines and and how it relates to trust lines and claimable balances claimable balances um lee could you tell us a little bit um lee could you tell us a little bit more about what that means what the more about what that means what the issue is issue is yeah so it's important to be transparent yeah so it's important to be transparent with uh an investor with uh an investor or that is a token holder as to what or that is a token holder as to what rights they have rights they have and what rates can be removed so so you and what rates can be removed so so you want it to be absolutely clear want it to be absolutely clear if they're holding one of these
if they're holding one of these regulated assets versus a bearer regulated assets versus a bearer instrument instrument that this is an asset that that can be that this is an asset that that can be clawed back clawed back because ultimately that's an investor's because ultimately that's an investor's choice if you don't want to have assets choice if you don't want to have assets that have this kind of regulatory that have this kind of regulatory oversight that's your right so you need oversight that's your right so you need to to um as you look at the asset have the um as you look at the asset have the indicators that are going to tell you indicators that are going to tell you that that either is or isn't in this that that either is or isn't in this category category and what follows from that is even if it and what follows from that is even if it is not is not in that this category it can't be placed in that this category it can't be placed in this category against their will in this category against their will so once you have designated an asset as so once you have designated an asset as regula regula regulated even if it or if you have regulated even if it or if you have designated it as designated it as as a bearer instrument there's no way as a bearer instrument there's no way that someone can backdoor you that someone can backdoor you um on this and so that was an important um on this and so that was an important part of the shape part of the shape of the the discussion around the cap of the the discussion around the cap yeah so to experience immutable or yeah so to experience immutable or you're saying this anyway you're saying this anyway uh so there's there's a couple of ways uh so there's there's a couple of ways that we address um that we address um well what dan what dan is talking about
well what dan what dan is talking about so the the verse is yeah author mutable so the the verse is yeah author mutable exists exists author mutable exists so um and still author mutable exists so um and still applies to this new applies to this new flag on the issuer account so if flag on the issuer account so if somebody is using that somebody is using that they can't enable clawback enabled in they can't enable clawback enabled in the same way that they can't enable the same way that they can't enable auth required or auth revocable if auth required or auth revocable if they're not set they're not set the second way is of the proposal cap 35 the second way is of the proposal cap 35 snapshots the state of the issuer snapshots the state of the issuer accounts clawback enabled accounts clawback enabled onto the trustline when the trust line onto the trustline when the trust line is created is created and the claimable balance snapshots the and the claimable balance snapshots the state of the trustlands state of the trustlands clawback enabled flag onto itself as clawback enabled flag onto itself as well well so it sort of inherits that state so so it sort of inherits that state so when when an account um trusts an issuer an account um trusts an issuer um today if the issue enables clawback um today if the issue enables clawback tomorrow it doesn't apply to accounts tomorrow it doesn't apply to accounts that have already trusted that issuer that have already trusted that issuer um they they get that they get the state um they they get that they get the state from when they trusted from when they trusted and then claimable balances are the same and then claimable balances are the same so a user or an account
so a user or an account holder can have some confidence that holder can have some confidence that if they create a claimable balance if they create a claimable balance tomorrow tomorrow it will still not be clawed back it will still not be clawed back enabled and yeah i think this is enabled and yeah i think this is something that something that we want to discuss is is this we want to discuss is is this appropriate appropriate should it be possible to change it that's actually one yeah sorry go ahead yeah i know like the the thing i was going to play is like one of thing i was going to play is like one of the the the thing i wanted to and i think the the thing i wanted to and i think the current version of the cap actually current version of the cap actually reflects that one of the things i really reflects that one of the things i really wanted to get wanted to get in this cap was as a property that in this cap was as a property that if we do have assets on the network if we do have assets on the network today today that do not rule this all that do not that do not rule this all that do not expect this kind of capability to exist expect this kind of capability to exist they should they should basically not care uh and basically not care uh and i think yeah like right now we are i think yeah like right now we are actually achieving that
actually achieving that yeah so what this actually would mean yeah so what this actually would mean for all accounts or for all trust lines for all accounts or for all trust lines that already exist on the network that already exist on the network all trust lines would start with this all trust lines would start with this cap cap clawback disabled so this would have clawback disabled so this would have no impact on existing trust lines or no impact on existing trust lines or accounts holding those trust lines accounts holding those trust lines um and therefore no impact on any um and therefore no impact on any claimant balances they claimant balances they created from existing trust lines either created from existing trust lines either but so one problem with the so so i but so one problem with the so so i agree with that agree with that idea in general but uh one problem i idea in general but uh one problem i have with the specific implementation is have with the specific implementation is that that what if you do want to uh set or clear what if you do want to uh set or clear the flag on a truss line right so i the flag on a truss line right so i could think of like several could think of like several uh scenarios um where the current uh scenarios um where the current proposal would proposal would not work so for example let's say that not work so for example let's say that the issuer revokes authorization from a the issuer revokes authorization from a trust line trust line um and offers to restore it in exchange um and offers to restore it in exchange for adding the clawback for adding the clawback flag so this would be like a a very flag so this would be like a a very realistic thing to do in response to
realistic thing to do in response to some kind of regulatory change where some kind of regulatory change where you're like okay you're like okay i'm freezing your assets because you i'm freezing your assets because you kind of ignored my requests you either kind of ignored my requests you either have to like sell these assets back to have to like sell these assets back to me right now or me right now or like you know comply with like the new like you know comply with like the new regulation regulation um another example would be that you um another example would be that you have different clawback policies for have different clawback policies for like individual like individual for institutional versus like individual for institutional versus like individual accounts right accounts right and now there's no way to uh and now there's no way to uh it's very hard to create these it's very hard to create these institutional accounts you'd have to institutional accounts you'd have to create these sandwich transactions and create these sandwich transactions and those sandwich transactions would not those sandwich transactions would not work if you added work if you added um off immutable um right um off immutable um right uh i mean another thing you might want uh i mean another thing you might want to do is have clawback only for to do is have clawback only for you know depending on like the limit of you know depending on like the limit of the trust line so like the trust line so like although i guess people can actually although i guess people can actually raise their limits after a trust line raise their limits after a trust line has been authorized but you know has been authorized but you know it might be nice to say like you know it might be nice to say like you know what i don't care for people to store a what i don't care for people to store a hundred dollars right hundred dollars right uh but you know if anybody's gonna store uh but you know if anybody's gonna store like millions of dollars like like millions of dollars like i need to be able to claw that back i need to be able to claw that back because maybe they stole it or something because maybe they stole it or something yeah david this this is a piece where if yeah david this this is a piece where if you take the two capabilities in
you take the two capabilities in combination i think you get the outcomes combination i think you get the outcomes that you want without a change that is that you want without a change that is except that there's no way to except that there's no way to tell me how to add the clawback enabled tell me how to add the clawback enabled flag or remove it from an account flag or remove it from an account uh from a trustline that already exists uh from a trustline that already exists that seems to be missing that seems to be missing either a description of it is missing either a description of it is missing from the cap or the mechanism it's a fair point the desire to um potentially freeze an account using a um potentially freeze an account using a mechanism mechanism and then basically force the party to and then basically force the party to either fall into the new regime either fall into the new regime um or maintain their account as frozen um or maintain their account as frozen let me let me separate that thought for let me let me separate that thought for a second a second and address the second point that you and address the second point that you raised regarding raised regarding hey there's there may be some difference hey there's there may be some difference between a wallet that it's an between a wallet that it's an institution institution an account that's a institutional party an account that's a institutional party versus a retail party versus a retail party or a range of different options we or a range of different options we handle that through the policy component handle that through the policy component of a regulated asset so we're able to of a regulated asset so we're able to tag tag to addresses or wallets specific
to addresses or wallets specific characteristics and one might be characteristics and one might be a characteristic or an attribute of a characteristic or an attribute of being an institutional party being an institutional party and that then affects the rules on how and that then affects the rules on how that that wallet transacts that that wallet transacts with this specific asset and so in this with this specific asset and so in this we're able to set limits like if it's we're able to set limits like if it's not more than a thousand then the not more than a thousand then the following things can following things can happen or if this party has certain happen or if this party has certain rights they can transact with parties rights they can transact with parties who have who have other rights and we do that at the other rights and we do that at the movement of value movement of value using the sep 8 strategy and there the using the sep 8 strategy and there the policy's gonna know but hold on policy's gonna know but hold on but back the problem is this is not a but back the problem is this is not a step problem it's a cap problem right so step problem it's a cap problem right so imagine a situation imagine a situation where you know uh i like uh you know where you know uh i like uh you know there's some central bank issues much there's some central bank issues much digital currency somebody else you know digital currency somebody else you know like i'm gonna buy like a billion like i'm gonna buy like a billion dollars worth of your asset dollars worth of your asset but it can't be clawed back right so but it can't be clawed back right so everybody else has clawback you want everybody else has clawback you want that billion dollar investment that billion dollar investment right so you're willing to do that to me right so you're willing to do that to me so we could collaborate together and so we could collaborate together and sign a transaction but the the current
sign a transaction but the the current mechanism mechanism doesn't provide us any way of doing that doesn't provide us any way of doing that right if you want right if you want everybody else to uh to have the everybody else to uh to have the clawback flag clawback flag on the clawback enabled flag on their on the clawback enabled flag on their trust lines there's no way to sort of trust lines there's no way to sort of create create a particular special account that a particular special account that doesn't have this flag doesn't have this flag particularly if you have auth immutable particularly if you have auth immutable here's how we handle that scenario but here's how we handle that scenario but i'm just i'm just if you know if this were the challenge if you know if this were the challenge that was presented to me i would handle that was presented to me i would handle it this way it this way i'd actually issue two different share i'd actually issue two different share classes one classes one with uh author revocable and and one with uh author revocable and and one that that could not be uh clawed back okay so now could not be uh clawed back okay so now i have two i have two and so those exist and they that's not and so those exist and they that's not the same that's not what i'm asking for the same that's not what i'm asking for what what like you still i want to be able to like you still i want to be able to trade i'm going to buy a million dollars trade i'm going to buy a million dollars worth of your asset worth of your asset i want to be able to trade that on the i want to be able to trade that on the open market you want to be able to claw open market you want to be able to claw it back from people who steal the assets it back from people who steal the assets but you know part of our special you but you know part of our special you know bespoke deal is that you're not know bespoke deal is that you're not going to be able to claw this back for going to be able to claw this back for me because i'm laying me because i'm laying out a lot of money right so this is a out a lot of money right so this is a very realistic thing to do very realistic thing to do we you know if we could set the bits to
we you know if we could set the bits to the right values we would be able to do the right values we would be able to do that there's no reason why that there's no reason why the issuer uh if both the issuer and the the issuer uh if both the issuer and the owner of the trustline consent they owner of the trustline consent they shouldn't be able to configure this shouldn't be able to configure this but the mechanism uh proposed here does but the mechanism uh proposed here does not allow them to do that and i not allow them to do that and i i don't see a justification for uh for i don't see a justification for uh for not not having a mechanism to do that when having a mechanism to do that when everybody's on board everybody's on board with the fact that that should happen with the fact that that should happen okay david so let me offer you two okay david so let me offer you two options here options here well let me offer you one option but well let me offer you one option but that addresses these two things like that addresses these two things like i think that going in the downgrade i think that going in the downgrade direction taking direction taking an asset that's clawbackable and making an asset that's clawbackable and making it non-club active that's completely it non-club active that's completely unoffensive unoffensive uh i actually have already spoken with uh i actually have already spoken with siddharth about how we would implement siddharth about how we would implement that that uh you know we're pretty clear on what uh you know we're pretty clear on what we would need to do it's not hard we would need to do it's not hard but the other direction is not cool you but the other direction is not cool you can't take can't take something that's not call backable and something that's not call backable and make it claw make it claw um well i think that the why shouldn't um well i think that the why shouldn't the owner of the trust line be able to the owner of the trust line be able to do it i think the do it i think the the issue of the asset should be able to the issue of the asset should be able to remove the clawback flag remove the clawback flag and the owner of a trustline should be
and the owner of a trustline should be allowed to add the clawback flag allowed to add the clawback flag but the owner like if the owner is going but the owner like if the owner is going to cooperate they can already do this to cooperate they can already do this how do you do it wow so all you have to how do you do it wow so all you have to do is do is make a like a cosign transaction between make a like a cosign transaction between the issuer and the asset and the holder the issuer and the asset and the holder the issuer the holder sends the money the issuer the holder sends the money back to the issuer back to the issuer deletes their trust line recreates their deletes their trust line recreates their trust line and the issuer sends the trust line and the issuer sends the money right back money right back and now no okay okay so hold on hold on and now no okay okay so hold on hold on so first of all so first of all um one thing there's another i have a um one thing there's another i have a bunch of comments on this so one comment bunch of comments on this so one comment is that i think that is that i think that the cap should make some suggestions for the cap should make some suggestions for the ecosystem the ecosystem and the like horizon should keep track and the like horizon should keep track of how many times clawback has been used of how many times clawback has been used on on any given asset and like how much has any given asset and like how much has been called back because this is gonna been called back because this is gonna be information people are gonna want be information people are gonna want um and it is it is one thing um and it is it is one thing to uh to like you know allow someone to to uh to like you know allow someone to claw something back it's another thing claw something back it's another thing to like to like actually send them the payment because actually send them the payment because then they could you know when this comes then they could you know when this comes to court this is gonna be a mess right
to court this is gonna be a mess right they're gonna be like you sent the money they're gonna be like you sent the money back to us because of this other back to us because of this other agreement or whatever agreement or whatever this is very uh it it it very much this is very uh it it it very much weakens weakens the uh the negotiating hand of the uh the negotiating hand of the uh of the person the uh of the person of the person who owns the trust line if of the person who owns the trust line if they have to like literally like they have to like literally like send all the money back and and delete send all the money back and and delete their trust line their trust line what if they just think about what if they just think about implementing this it's like implementing this it's like it's it's much more of a mess right no i it's it's much more of a mess right no i think it's a mess if you actually allow think it's a mess if you actually allow people to people to to to go from something that is to to go from something that is not that that cannot grow back to can be not that that cannot grow back to can be club bad because club bad because think about it basically breaks any kind think about it basically breaks any kind of assumption you can of assumption you can uh you know you can imagine in terms of uh you know you can imagine in terms of like pre-signed transactions and all like pre-signed transactions and all that stuff because at this point that stuff because at this point like the issuer gets full control on any like the issuer gets full control on any kind of intermediate step kind of intermediate step wait a second i can if i can send them wait a second i can if i can send them if i can send the coins back to the if i can send the coins back to the issuer issuer
issuer uh why shouldn't i be allowed to add the uh why shouldn't i be allowed to add the clawback enabled flag like that's clawback enabled flag like that's clearly like less of a clearly like less of a thing to do right i mean i guess i don't thing to do right i mean i guess i don't have any have any wait am i yeah okay i don't have any wait am i yeah okay i don't have any material opposition to doing it it's material opposition to doing it it's just like just like since i can give you a way to do it with since i can give you a way to do it with without without changing the protocol like why should i changing the protocol like why should i change the protocol but it's not the change the protocol but it's not the same thing same thing right like it's not atomic it's no that right like it's not atomic it's no that is atomic that's a single transaction is atomic that's a single transaction sorry sorry yeah it's um it like sorry sorry yeah it's um it like you know requires me to like cancel all you know requires me to like cancel all my my uh orders and stuff like uh i mean it's uh orders and stuff like uh i mean it's just just it's just it's it's it's some total mess it's just it's it's it's some total mess right like look right like look in in one month because of this in in one month because of this regulatory change we're going to require regulatory change we're going to require all our customers to either add the all our customers to either add the clawback flag clawback flag or uh or we're gonna like freeze it by or uh or we're gonna like freeze it by revoking revoking the the authorization on the trust line the the authorization on the trust line right and so now the customers right and so now the customers they have a month and at their leisure they have a month and at their leisure they should be able to do this they they should be able to do this they shouldn't have to coordinate with us shouldn't have to coordinate with us like send the money back to us and like like send the money back to us and like trust us to send it back to them or like trust us to send it back to them or like do some complicated protocol where we
do some complicated protocol where we like pre-sign like pre-sign some transaction this some transaction this this sounds like um you know like this sounds like um you know like a far-fetched scenario to basically say a far-fetched scenario to basically say hey i have this asset hey i have this asset i'm going to make it now do a book go up like a far back or whatever whatever yeah because like i think like what then yeah because like i think like what then you're saying like i think the more you're saying like i think the more realistic realistic uh way to do this would actually to uh way to do this would actually to issue a new asset and then ask people issue a new asset and then ask people to just move over like it it's way to just move over like it it's way cleaner cleaner like it's you know you don't have like like it's you know you don't have like this mix mode this mix mode i mean it's not like what i'm asking for i mean it's not like what i'm asking for what i'm asking for is not what i'm asking for is not complicated it's kind of more consistent complicated it's kind of more consistent right like it's just gonna right like it's just gonna we already have operations to like set we already have operations to like set flags on our on on truss lines right and flags on our on on truss lines right and but not on yourself that would be a new but not on yourself that would be a new thing i don't think you can control your thing i don't think you can control your own flights today own flights today well in in in as an issue you can hold well in in in as an issue you can hold on on let me look at change trust as an issue
let me look at change trust as an issue you can but but like uh you can but but like uh those are like authorization flags right those are like authorization flags right they'll differ i guess they'll differ i guess for me david like the main thing that i for me david like the main thing that i want to kind of bring up here is like want to kind of bring up here is like we don't have to do this now like we we don't have to do this now like we we could do it now there's nothing we could do it now there's nothing stopping us like i agree it's a cleaner stopping us like i agree it's a cleaner way to implement this way to implement this if it's something that people really if it's something that people really actually want but i'm actually want but i'm i'm like hey not convinced it's i'm like hey not convinced it's something that people would actually do something that people would actually do based on what dan was saying based on what dan was saying uh and if it is something that people uh and if it is something that people really do want to do really do want to do as we just agreed it's easy so like it's as we just agreed it's easy so like it's a change in semantics like we don't a change in semantics like we don't allow allow anything like this to say but there's anything like this to say but there's nothing stopping us from allowing it in nothing stopping us from allowing it in the future the future uh it'd be an easy thing to do at any uh it'd be an easy thing to do at any time if the need for it actually comes time if the need for it actually comes up up we could just do it but i don't think we we could just do it but i don't think we need to i don't think we need to do it need to i don't think we need to do it now basically now basically okay but we do need to remove we need to okay but we do need to remove we need to remove the flag yeah right i see a lot remove the flag yeah right i see a lot of compelling reasons to have the remove of compelling reasons to have the remove part part uh the move is that seems right
uh the move is that seems right um another thing to consider here um another thing to consider here regarding john's uh regarding john's uh previous suggestion of co-signing a previous suggestion of co-signing a transaction and and doing transaction and and doing with the issuer these issuers are with the issuer these issuers are interactive interactive um right now okay like they're um right now okay like they're probably doing kappa 18 sandwich probably doing kappa 18 sandwich transactions they're transactions they're co-signing every transaction so the co-signing every transaction so the interactivity by the issuer interactivity by the issuer is not a big hurdle here uh it's already is not a big hurdle here uh it's already there i mean it's just like massively like like sending someone all your money like like sending someone all your money like it just like who knows maybe are there it just like who knows maybe are there like tax implications for this like tax implications for this like are you because you've like like are you because you've like actually given someone actually given someone the money i don't know i just it's just the money i don't know i just it's just a bit like there's clearly no a bit like there's clearly no security issue like it it's it is a bit security issue like it it's it is a bit that something that's this that something that's this someone owns a trust line should be able someone owns a trust line should be able to consent to so like why not to consent to so like why not provide them a mechanism for that um
provide them a mechanism for that um and just to be clear you think that and just to be clear you think that there might be a way to basically there might be a way to basically load that mechanism into change trust load that mechanism into change trust into the change trust into the change trust no i guess we don't we don't have uh we no i guess we don't we don't have uh we we don't we don't it wouldn't it wouldn't work and change it wouldn't it wouldn't work and change trust so it needs to be trust so it needs to be a new one it would have to be in like a new one it would have to be in like allow trust with a different signer but allow trust with a different signer but that's a mess so yeah i guess it would that's a mess so yeah i guess it would need another operation need another operation so um i'm sorry dude what we frequently issue assets that represent different rights um so that represent different rights um so this would be tranches or share classes this would be tranches or share classes so for example you have so for example you have uh an instrument denoted xyz and that is uh an instrument denoted xyz and that is absolutely not what i'm talking about absolutely not what i'm talking about here right like here right like so i'm talking about a situation where so i'm talking about a situation where you need to have the same asset as you need to have the same asset as everybody else because you need to be everybody else because you need to be like participating in the decks like participating in the decks with this asset so it needs to you need with this asset so it needs to you need to have fungibility to have fungibility so i'm only concerned about the case so i'm only concerned about the case where you need fungibility but you have where you need fungibility but you have different different classes of asset holder just not classes of asset holder just not different classes of
different classes of of asset right yeah i of asset right yeah i actually think those represent different actually think those represent different rights um in rights um in in a way that's me is maybe subtle but in a way that's me is maybe subtle but meaningful meaningful and of course on the decks you can and of course on the decks you can always trade one set of rights for always trade one set of rights for another another um so you can trade if if both assets um so you can trade if if both assets exist exist one with clawback and one without one with clawback and one without clawback there's a yeah clawback there's a yeah again i think we're we're just going again i think we're we're just going down a rat hole it's not productive i do down a rat hole it's not productive i do not care about the case not care about the case i understand that that's a valid case i understand that that's a valid case but that's already supported so we don't but that's already supported so we don't need to discuss it need to discuss it right that's fair i i you're you're right that's fair i i you're you're talking about something different from talking about something different from from what i'm talking about um i'm from what i'm talking about um i'm saying like you know i'm saying like you know i'm like some i'm hiring someone to to you like some i'm hiring someone to to you know like i have this know like i have this bespoke deal where i'm going to give bespoke deal where i'm going to give someone a lot of something that a lot someone a lot of something that a lot a lot of individuals have a little bit a lot of individuals have a little bit of and because of that i'm willing to of and because of that i'm willing to give them more rights give them more rights so uh so that so it seems like there's so uh so that so it seems like there's agreement that we can at least support agreement that we can at least support that that scenario and we'll have to wait for the scenario and we'll have to wait for the other one other one so uh so i have a couple of other uh
so uh so i have a couple of other uh critiques so first of all i think that critiques so first of all i think that we have this mentality that we've like we have this mentality that we've like made this mistake of putting the made this mistake of putting the extension switches at the end extension switches at the end of uh of structures like so many times of uh of structures like so many times like well like well why not do it one more time but it's why not do it one more time but it's still a mistake so i really think that still a mistake so i really think that we should put the union at the top of we should put the union at the top of the structures the ext union at the top the structures the ext union at the top of the structures and not at the end i of the structures and not at the end i just just i don't just because we made the mistake i don't just because we made the mistake 10 times like that doesn't mean we 10 times like that doesn't mean we should make it an 11th time there's just should make it an 11th time there's just no justification for adding for like no justification for adding for like tying our hands in terms of like future tying our hands in terms of like future extensibility extensibility uh by not allowing us to union the whole uh by not allowing us to union the whole data structure so data structure so you know sorry to sound like a broken you know sorry to sound like a broken right structure are you talking about right structure are you talking about here sorry here sorry well any of them like uh anytime there's well any of them like uh anytime there's uh let's see let me actually have the uh let's see let me actually have the thing in front of me so if i pull up thing in front of me so if i pull up just search for like ext um just search for like ext um because we have these these are because we have these these are operations right like you're talking operations right like you're talking operations then because operations we operations then because operations we don't need that we don't need that we we already have the entry claimable we already have the entry claimable balance entry extension v1
balance entry extension v1 the switch is at the end the switch is at the end oh and you're saying to move that right oh and you're saying to move that right yeah okay that's fine i don't care yeah okay that's fine i don't care okay great is that what benefit to just okay great is that what benefit to just gives you many many more options for gives you many many more options for future upgradeability like you could future upgradeability like you could decide to version the whole data decide to version the whole data structure instead of just keep structure instead of just keep like appending like you know more and like appending like you know more and more nested things and so it makes more nested things and so it makes uh potentially makes source code uh potentially makes source code compatibility a lot easier like compatibility a lot easier like because we didn't have this on because we didn't have this on transaction we had to like jump through transaction we had to like jump through some like pretty gross hoops when we some like pretty gross hoops when we wanted to um wanted to um uh extend the transaction format um uh extend the transaction format um it sounds like there's no objection to it sounds like there's no objection to that very specific idea is that true that very specific idea is that true fantastic fantastic because i feel very fantastic fantastic because i feel very strongly about it so if nobody else strongly about it so if nobody else cares please humor me and do that cares please humor me and do that um i i do want to make sure also i know um i i do want to make sure also i know that there's some other stuff about the that there's some other stuff about the way that way that that this um that that uh that this um that that uh like how how cap 35 deals with claimable
like how how cap 35 deals with claimable balances that i believe there's some balances that i believe there's some discussion that needs to happen is that discussion that needs to happen is that correct john oh you mean classic sorry what was the topic i was looking at the uh topic i was looking at the uh at the proposal while you were talking at the proposal while you were talking to me oh sorry uh clawbacks and to me oh sorry uh clawbacks and claimable balances i know that there is claimable balances i know that there is some some discussion around how they interact is discussion around how they interact is that correct that correct yeah there's a little bit of discussion yeah there's a little bit of discussion and there's also some interesting topics and there's also some interesting topics about like uh about like uh about what flags we should be using or about what flags we should be using or reusing um reusing um depending on how many more comments depending on how many more comments david has i think we can go i have two david has i think we can go i have two more more i'll make them i'll try to make them uh i'll make them i'll try to make them uh quick well one one is quick and the quick well one one is quick and the other other well maybe we can defer so the the well maybe we can defer so the the quick one is please give the data quick one is please give the data structure for an asset code structure for an asset code a name because it appears also in the a name because it appears also in the allow trust stop thing allow trust stop thing and this is a particularly a kind of and this is a particularly a kind of data structure that you want a special data structure that you want a special case when you're like rendering it in case when you're like rendering it in text and stuff and so to have it like a text and stuff and so to have it like a single data structure called like single data structure called like asset code or asset code name or asset code or asset code name or something something you know there's a knowledge you mean
you know there's a knowledge you mean the non the non non-native assets right basically yeah non-native assets right basically yeah exactly that's exactly that's truck yeah yeah yeah i think lee already truck yeah yeah yeah i think lee already is is making the change perfect yeah making the change perfect yeah um and then the other thing is just um and then the other thing is just kind of to plant the seed that there's kind of to plant the seed that there's an issue this this issue comes up in a an issue this this issue comes up in a lot of other contexts or people have lot of other contexts or people have complained to me that complained to me that they want to create a fixed number of an they want to create a fixed number of an asset um asset um and then continue to manage it with like and then continue to manage it with like an auth required an auth required and uh and it's a it's a bummer because and uh and it's a it's a bummer because what happens is you basically create what happens is you basically create this account you throw away the this account you throw away the the signing with a kind of high signing the signing with a kind of high signing weight and you keep only low signing weight and you keep only low signing weight so you can authorize trust lines weight so you can authorize trust lines but then you have no way to rotate the but then you have no way to rotate the keys um keys um and so this situation is going to get and so this situation is going to get worse and that you'll you'll also have worse and that you'll you'll also have no way to no way to uh you know fiddle with like the stuff i uh you know fiddle with like the stuff i was talking about before where you was talking about before where you change off immutable so we're not going change off immutable so we're not going to fix that to fix that for this but there's something we should for this but there's something we should keep in mind when we do these proposals keep in mind when we do these proposals that someday we should solve that that someday we should solve that problem okay i'll shut up and let
problem okay i'll shut up and let other people you also now have no way of other people you also now have no way of fixing the supply fixing the supply uh so yeah that's exactly i was thinking uh so yeah that's exactly i was thinking tomer tomer we've got a lot of people that's right we've got a lot of people that's right you oh that's right you also can't fix you oh that's right you also can't fix the supply exactly the supply exactly so so it'd be cool if you could like so so it'd be cool if you could like delegate to some other account so it delegate to some other account so it can't can't create the asset but it can revoke it create the asset but it can revoke it and it can issue trust lines we'll add a and it can issue trust lines we'll add a level of indirection that's not for this level of indirection that's not for this cap that's just an idea to put in tool cap that's just an idea to put in tool sets okay we can move on john i think you had some questions about clay mobile balances about clay mobile balances is that correct no i i think that we is that correct no i i think that we should move and let lee talk a little should move and let lee talk a little bit about like bit about like the different types of flag options that the different types of flag options that we have available to us i think that we have available to us i think that based on some discussions that we've had based on some discussions that we've had that's kind of one of that's kind of one of the things that we if you look through the things that we if you look through that that thread on the seller dev that that thread on the seller dev mailing list we have cycled through that mailing list we have cycled through that topic like four separate times topic like four separate times um and it's uh it's pretty key to um and it's uh it's pretty key to actually getting an implementation ready actually getting an implementation ready so i think we should go there so i think we should go there first yeah so what we're talking about
first yeah so what we're talking about specifically specifically is the proposal right now adds a new is the proposal right now adds a new flag to the flag to the account flags auth clawback enabled account flags auth clawback enabled and what we want to talk about is should and what we want to talk about is should is that is that make sense does that deliver um a lot of make sense does that deliver um a lot of value or should we value or should we reuse the auth revocable flag because reuse the auth revocable flag because clawback clawback and revocal conceptually they're very and revocal conceptually they're very similar like one freezes similar like one freezes and essentially you can't use it the and essentially you can't use it the other one takes it away so you can't use other one takes it away so you can't use it it i mean both cases the account is losing i mean both cases the account is losing control over the asset control over the asset and in a lot of cases we think and in a lot of cases we think if you have clawback enabled you're if you have clawback enabled you're probably also going to have revocable probably also going to have revocable enabled enabled or vice versa um so in or vice versa um so in sort of inspired by cap 29 in an attempt sort of inspired by cap 29 in an attempt to like clean up flags to like clean up flags or to make flags simple and make it or to make flags simple and make it harder to shoot yourself on the foot harder to shoot yourself on the foot um with them uh does it make sense just um with them uh does it make sense just to simplify this to simplify this and attach it to the existing auth and attach it to the existing auth revocable flag
revocable flag what do people think about that i'll say from our perspective we can't imagine a scenario where those rights imagine a scenario where those rights would be would be distinct so we can easily see those distinct so we can easily see those collapsing into the same right it it collapsing into the same right it it from a regulatory perspective from a regulatory perspective that authority is held by the same party uh i i think we i think it doesn't hurt to uh to keep them separate hurt to uh to keep them separate um and at the very least there's uh um and at the very least there's uh there's a sort of there's a sort of uh an uh uh an uh benefit for appearances so uh so it benefit for appearances so uh so it goes back a while but there's definitely goes back a while but there's definitely this things like this have been like this things like this have been like really really touchy subjects in the past where people touchy subjects in the past where people have gotten like really have gotten like really upset at the idea that you know upset at the idea that you know uh that you could like revoke things and uh that you could like revoke things and i think it could be i think it could be uh even if i sort of think that there
uh even if i sort of think that there there may be like a transition there may be like a transition argument anyway where like you you argument anyway where like you you initially uh issue an asset and then initially uh issue an asset and then later decide that you actually want it later decide that you actually want it to be to be um uh clawbackable um uh clawbackable uh and so i actually think there's value uh and so i actually think there's value in that in that but i also think that uh we don't want but i also think that uh we don't want to to uh we don't want people to feel in any uh we don't want people to feel in any way that stellar is way that stellar is trying to you know force people to like trying to you know force people to like consent to like have their consent to like have their assets revoked and so by taking assets revoked and so by taking a piece of functionality that people a piece of functionality that people might already be using and saying okay might already be using and saying okay now you can only use this functionality now you can only use this functionality if in addition you're willing to give up if in addition you're willing to give up these extra rights these extra rights i don't feel good about that and i don't i don't feel good about that and i don't think think and i think there might be people even and i think there might be people even if it's a kind of a subtle uh if it's a kind of a subtle uh change and maybe even if you could argue change and maybe even if you could argue that well you could sort of do other that well you could sort of do other things that would be bad to someone too things that would be bad to someone too that they've already consented to i that they've already consented to i don't like the idea of kind of it feels don't like the idea of kind of it feels too much like a power grab too much like a power grab to me that's fair look we don't have a to me that's fair look we don't have a dog in the fight in the politics of this dog in the fight in the politics of this
dog in the fight in the politics of this of course of course um only just for the sake of simplicity um only just for the sake of simplicity from our perspective from our perspective and just as one of your many users um and just as one of your many users um the right to freeze assets is the only the right to freeze assets is the only distinction between the right to freeze distinction between the right to freeze and claw back and claw back is just the mess that you leave behind is just the mess that you leave behind when you freeze and you don't claw back when you freeze and you don't claw back so from our perspective again from a so from our perspective again from a regulatory perspective regulatory perspective if you can do one you really can do if you can do one you really can do effectively do the other effectively do the other the only difference is that but it sort the only difference is that but it sort of it also depends like how you of it also depends like how you how you um wha what what how you um wha what what what sort of real world interpretation what sort of real world interpretation people give people give to uh these values on the ledger so to uh these values on the ledger so maybe you have a company that's only maybe you have a company that's only authorized to issue some number of authorized to issue some number of shares and so shares and so uh you could freeze shares that people uh you could freeze shares that people have but that doesn't allow you to issue have but that doesn't allow you to issue more shares without more shares without you know uh amending your bylaws or you know uh amending your bylaws or whatever whereas you know you could whatever whereas you know you could argue well if you call them back then argue well if you call them back then you can just give them to someone else you can just give them to someone else so even though like so even though like yes we could just kind of by convention yes we could just kind of by convention agree that these things are agree that these things are are equivalent i think what it looks
are equivalent i think what it looks like on the blockchain like on the blockchain and how easy it is to map that to what and how easy it is to map that to what you actually you actually how you actually interpret that in the how you actually interpret that in the real world i think it's just real world i think it's just cleaner and easier if you have two cleaner and easier if you have two separate options and again it doesn't separate options and again it doesn't it doesn't cost us much to have these it doesn't cost us much to have these two separate flags two separate flags it just seems less objectionable is it just seems less objectionable is there a downside to having two separate there a downside to having two separate flags and if so what is it flags and if so what is it well one of the things that lee and i well one of the things that lee and i kept talking about was this uh kept talking about was this uh this weird scenario where imagine that this weird scenario where imagine that you are some kind of you are some kind of guy i don't know what to call you guy i don't know what to call you because as dan pointed out like because as dan pointed out like it's probably not reasonable to do this it's probably not reasonable to do this but you're some kind of entity that but you're some kind of entity that wants to be able to clawback but not wants to be able to clawback but not revoke revoke suppose uh and you were like okay well suppose uh and you were like okay well like i look at the flags this is pretty like i look at the flags this is pretty obvious all i have to do is set the obvious all i have to do is set the clawback flag and not set the auth clawback flag and not set the auth the revoke flag problem solved right not the revoke flag problem solved right not so so because if you do this you are almost because if you do this you are almost surely in a situation where you're about surely in a situation where you're about to shoot yourself in the foot to shoot yourself in the foot because if you are used if your asset
because if you are used if your asset holders holders then create a bunch of offers you will then create a bunch of offers you will not be able to claw back the assets that not be able to claw back the assets that are tied up in the liabilities of those are tied up in the liabilities of those offers offers the reason for that is that in order the the reason for that is that in order the only way to cancel only way to cancel the offers for an account is to use the offers for an account is to use revoke revoke so this is kind of one of those things so this is kind of one of those things where it's like it seems like really cut where it's like it seems like really cut and dry and you know we could and dry and you know we could paste the biggest reddest sign that you paste the biggest reddest sign that you can think of in our docs can think of in our docs but i guarantee you somebody will shoot but i guarantee you somebody will shoot themselves in the foot anyway themselves in the foot anyway yeah you're right there's four yeah you're right there's four possibilities and three of them are possibilities and three of them are useful useful are plausibly useful right and one of are plausibly useful right and one of them probably means you're doing them probably means you're doing something you don't intend to do well something you don't intend to do well that that isn't it but that's it that that isn't it but that's it that isn't an argument to have two flags that isn't an argument to have two flags or one flag though because you can just or one flag though because you can just disallow callback on this revocable is disallow callback on this revocable is also set right also set right so i mean i get they're tied together so i mean i get they're tied together and it seems useless but you could have and it seems useless but you could have that that yeah i mean it it increases the yeah i mean it it increases the implementation burden and the mental implementation burden and the mental modeling burden modeling burden for users uh but like i agree there's
for users uh but like i agree there's nothing uh nothing uh there's nothing stopping us from doing there's nothing stopping us from doing that i mean that i mean it seems to be a trade-off between the it seems to be a trade-off between the mental model or overhead of the issuer mental model or overhead of the issuer versus the mental model and overhead of versus the mental model and overhead of people that want to understand whether people that want to understand whether things can be clawed back the thing about though about separating clawback from from authorization i think clawback from from authorization i think the one area where this makes a big the one area where this makes a big difference is in the difference is in the balance entry actually because you know balance entry actually because you know as you think about the as you think about the ways those things work authorization ways those things work authorization actually is actually is completely async in balanced countries completely async in balanced countries like you have those two part payments like you have those two part payments right you have the right you have the when you create the balance entry you when you create the balance entry you need to be authorized need to be authorized and then later to claim it you have to and then later to claim it you have to be authorized be authorized um but then what happens in in between um but then what happens in in between is kind of this funny thing right like is kind of this funny thing right like uh uh and having this as a separate flag and having this as a separate flag allows you to allows you to kind of deal with situations like you
kind of deal with situations like you know about what we are talking about know about what we are talking about earlier earlier when like if you want to handle for when like if you want to handle for example the example the different downgraded accounts or different downgraded accounts or whatever whatever that don't have that you cannot go back that don't have that you cannot go back i mean basically you still need to i mean basically you still need to propagate this flag somehow propagate this flag somehow and if you're going to propagate in and if you're going to propagate in balanced entries balanced entries you could say well i'm propagating you could say well i'm propagating authorization that's kind of funny authorization that's kind of funny uh because you know you're always uh because you know you're always authorized so authorized so what does that really mean uh what does that really mean uh yeah one clarification about the yeah one clarification about the proposal is that we wouldn't be proposal is that we wouldn't be uh propagating the auth flag would be uh propagating the auth flag would be propagating propagating like everywhere in the cap where the like everywhere in the cap where the auth claw back enabled or whatever the auth claw back enabled or whatever the name of that really name of that really that flag is you just sub in the word that flag is you just sub in the word auth revocable auth revocable so basically it's like you know the so basically it's like you know the clawback enabled flag on a truss line clawback enabled flag on a truss line would be set would be set based on the auth revocable flag based on the auth revocable flag of the issuer at the time the trust sign of the issuer at the time the trust sign is created and similarly for the is created and similarly for the claimable balance entry it then inherits claimable balance entry it then inherits the flag from the so i it's not so bad
the flag from the so i it's not so bad in in in this like it doesn't really contact in this like it doesn't really contact that but that's strictly less powerful that but that's strictly less powerful than what we are where right now where than what we are where right now where you you you can actually don't like uh remove you can actually don't like uh remove that flag on that flag on one account and then you have this icon one account and then you have this icon that basically can do that basically can do you know all sorts of things including you know all sorts of things including balanced entries balanced entries that are that cannot be called back that are that cannot be called back right right because maybe they are part of like nice because maybe they are part of like nice smart contracts or whatever where it's smart contracts or whatever where it's very clear that basically that thing is very clear that basically that thing is cannot be messed with by the issuer so cannot be messed with by the issuer so you're talking about you're talking about you're talking about the value of an you're talking about the value of an account where revoking is still sensible account where revoking is still sensible but clawing back is bad but clawing back is bad that that's what you're saying yeah yeah that that's what you're saying yeah yeah yeah i can see that argument yeah i can see that argument um yeah i think the big the big issue um yeah i think the big the big issue oh sorry i think my audio just cut out oh sorry i think my audio just cut out no no please go ahead i i don't know i no no please go ahead i i don't know i was interrupting you john was interrupting you john no i wasn't um you're good no i wasn't um you're good uh yes i think i think the big negative uh yes i think i think the big negative so really the only big negative that
so really the only big negative that i've heard people say about having two i've heard people say about having two flags flags is just that um that is just that um that you can you cannot accidentally you can you cannot accidentally misunderstand how to use them and you misunderstand how to use them and you can set one can set one and then you can't actually claw back and then you can't actually claw back because somebody has offers because somebody has offers so is that is that an issue that we need so is that is that an issue that we need to revisit like the fact that to revisit like the fact that you can have club enabled but you can't you can have club enabled but you can't really call back really call back because somebody has offers like is that because somebody has offers like is that i know we defined it to work that way i know we defined it to work that way because from an implementation point of because from an implementation point of view it's simple view it's simple or simpler for or simpler for for core and the protocol but do we need for core and the protocol but do we need to revisit that to revisit that could we have two flags but just not could we have two flags but just not allow one of the four combinations allow one of the four combinations to be set on an account i would prefer to be set on an account i would prefer that over that over the thing that lee was saying from from the thing that lee was saying from from an implementation perspective that's way an implementation perspective that's way easier than moving how the offer easier than moving how the offer destruction gets done which is destruction gets done which is not good and i don't want to do that would you be okay with that lee i mean like i'm okay with basically saying like like i'm okay with basically saying like hey like we're not going to let you do hey like we're not going to let you do the combination that's almost surely a the combination that's almost surely a mistake
mistake um it doesn't bother me i think um it doesn't bother me i think i think we could be possible for us to say with cap35 that they both have to be certain that they both have to be certain but if in the future we discover that but if in the future we discover that actually there is a really important use actually there is a really important use case where we don't want them to be set case where we don't want them to be set that we had a proposal that then removed that we had a proposal that then removed that constraint that constraint or would it be are we if we sign up for or would it be are we if we sign up for this constraint is this constraint this constraint is this constraint something that we need to be supporting something that we need to be supporting forever forever no because we can just allow you to set no because we can just allow you to set the account flags that way right so this the account flags that way right so this is is we're just saying that then you know we're just saying that then you know that i'm that i'm then i'm fine i think that's so you can then i'm fine i think that's so you can set the revocable flag or you can set set the revocable flag or you can set both flags you can't both flags you can't set the clawback flag but clear the set the clawback flag but clear the revocable flag this also means that for a line that has revocable line that has revocable set and clawback set set and clawback set at the time it was created that it won't
at the time it was created that it won't be possible to use allow trust to clear be possible to use allow trust to clear the revocable flag so fun wait we don't have we don't have a flag revocable on the trust line a flag revocable on the trust line oops yeah so it seems like the solution is have two flags only allow two flags only allow three combos disallow the fourth three combos disallow the fourth um combo that shoots you in the foot um combo that shoots you in the foot that's brilliant so we've got five minutes left um is there any other there any other is there any other issue that anyone is there any other issue that anyone wants to bring up if not lee is offering wants to bring up if not lee is offering to give a quick summary which i think to give a quick summary which i think would be helpful great lee take it away
okay so i think um i think we have five takeaways relating to cap takeaways relating to cap 35 uh 35 uh there's some discussion around xdrs and there's some discussion around xdrs and moving extensions at the top moving extensions at the top of any new structures that we're of any new structures that we're creating which is an easy one creating which is an easy one we need some definition for non-native we need some definition for non-native asset code which is an easy one asset code which is an easy one we agreed to not reuse auth revocable to we agreed to not reuse auth revocable to keep the separate flag keep the separate flag to require that both author revocable to require that both author revocable and north claude accuse that and north claude accuse that at the same time if callback is enabled at the same time if callback is enabled and then finally there was some and then finally there was some discussion earlier at the beginning discussion earlier at the beginning about about a need for the issuer to be able to a need for the issuer to be able to remove clawback enabled remove clawback enabled for a trustline um is that uh and there's going to be a common data structure between uh allow trust stop structure between uh allow trust stop and uh the clawback right for like asset code or asset code name or something
or something oh yes yes yep that was yeah sorry the oh yes yes yep that was yeah sorry the non-native asset code non-native asset code we will introduce some non-native asset we will introduce some non-native asset code structure code structure that's common between them i think out that's common between them i think out of all of it most of these of all of it most of these things that i just summarized are all things that i just summarized are all very straightforward very straightforward i think the one that maybe is not super i think the one that maybe is not super straightforward is straightforward is the ability for the issue to remove the the ability for the issue to remove the clawback flag because there is some clawback flag because there is some issues with us adding that to the issues with us adding that to the existing allowed trial stop existing allowed trial stop which we might need to think about which we might need to think about siddharth was actually the one who siddharth was actually the one who originally brought that to my attention originally brought that to my attention and i think to your attention as well and i think to your attention as well lisa maybe starts can talk about that lisa maybe starts can talk about that for a second and kind of talk about what for a second and kind of talk about what we had we had presented as an opera as an option for presented as an opera as an option for how to kind of do that yeah so the the issue with the loud trust right now is trust right now is uh it requires you to know uh it requires you to know uh which which flags are already set uh which which flags are already set because it currently just sets because it currently just sets the trustline flags to the parameter
the trustline flags to the parameter that's passed into our trust that's passed into our trust um and this was fine when there was only um and this was fine when there was only one value but as you add more flags one value but as you add more flags uh it becomes a burden on the user uh uh it becomes a burden on the user uh ideally it would work the way set ideally it would work the way set options works where we specify which options works where we specify which bit which flags you want to set and bit which flags you want to set and which flags you want to which flags you want to or which bits you want to set which bits or which bits you want to set which bits you want to clear uh you want to clear uh so the the what we would like to do so the the what we would like to do in the future is uh create another in the future is uh create another operation operation uh that works the way set options works uh that works the way set options works where you you can actually you know you where you you can actually you know you can enable cloudback if you want can enable cloudback if you want or you can disable uh cloud without or you can disable uh cloud without without knowing what the other without knowing what the other uh uh with the other flags are uh uh with the other flags are i mean you could just turn authorized i mean you could just turn authorized into a union right there's only two into a union right there's only two values currently used so that's not true there that's not true there are already three possible values for are already three possible values for authorize authorize um and with this there would now be six
um and with this there would now be six well yeah i think six now well yeah i think six now that all makes sense right now we're not that all makes sense right now we're not saying you don't put the six instead you saying you don't put the six instead you have a union where the three existing have a union where the three existing values are just values are just uh void cases and there's a there's uh void cases and there's a there's another case which says set bits in another case which says set bits in another case which says clear bits another case which says clear bits and and then has a like a 32-bit integer and and then has a like a 32-bit integer as the field as the field [Music] [Music] i mean whatever this is bike shedding i mean whatever this is bike shedding like like whoever influenced this should make the whoever influenced this should make the decision i'm just pointing out that decision i'm just pointing out that they're they're they're lighter weight options than uh they're lighter weight options than uh creating a new operation although you creating a new operation although you know know maybe they're gross enough that you want maybe they're gross enough that you want to create a new operation to create a new operation that's definitely an interesting that's definitely an interesting proposal though i hadn't even considered proposal though i hadn't even considered that that so i think my question here um so it so i think my question here um so it sounds like you know there's more ways sounds like you know there's more ways we go about this and we can explore that we go about this and we can explore that uh my question is does this need to be a uh my question is does this need to be a part of cap 35 part of cap 35 the ability to it should be if we're the ability to it should be if we're going to do it
going to do it it should be yeah if it's uh it would be better for it to be if it's gonna like completely derail cap 35 gonna like completely derail cap 35 because we because we argue over the details of how to do argue over the details of how to do something that there's two ways to do something that there's two ways to do then i then i guess maybe not but well i feel like that's like next camp something yeah i think we're out of time something yeah i think we're out of time for this meaning i feel like we did make for this meaning i feel like we did make a lot of progress on cap 35 and cap 29 a lot of progress on cap 35 and cap 29 too um and so yeah i'm getting into too um and so yeah i'm getting into those super super fun details i think those super super fun details i think can happen can happen next time and i just want to thank next time and i just want to thank everyone for being here everyone for being here um yeah and welcome back protocol um yeah and welcome back protocol meetings hello 2021 meetings hello 2021 thanks everybody thanks bye bye everybody